# 💀 Zaruba 

Zaruba is a declarative Task Runner Framework. It helps you to define and orchestrate tasks. In zaruba, a task might extend or depends on each other.

Several tasks are already included and can be extended as necessary. You can even build a full-fledge FastAPI application and having it deployed to your kubernetes cluster by using helm by performing this:

```sh
# Init project
mkdir myProject
cd myProject
zaruba please initProject

# Create FastAPI service, module, and book CRUD
zaruba please makeFastService generator.service.location=myService
zaruba please makeFastModule generator.service.location=myService generator.module.name=mymodule
zaruba please makeFastCRUD generator.service.location=myService generator.module.name=mymodule generator.crud.entity=book generator.crud.fields=title,author,synopsis

# Create task to start zaruba
zaruba please makeServiceTask generator.service.location=myService generator.service.type=fastapi

# Run service locally
zaruba please run

# Run service (this time containerized)
zaruba please runContainer

# Create helm chart
zaruba please makeHelmCharts

# Create helm deployment for myService
zaruba please makeServiceDeployment generator.service.location=myService

# Helm apply
zaruba please helmApply kube.context=docker-desktop
```

> 💡 __TIPS:__ Execute task with `--interactive` flag is probably a good idea if you don't want to memorize the parameters.

# 🏁 Getting Started

To get started with Zaruba you can visit [amalgam repository](https://github.com/goFrendiAsgard/amalgam). The repository contains most use cases and all artifacts generated by zaruba.

# 👨‍💻 Installation

## Using docker

Using docker is probably the quickest way to setup zaruba, especially if you need to use zaruba in your CI/CD.

For more information about zaruba's docker image, please visit [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/stalchmst/zaruba).

> **⚠️NOTE** There will be some limitations if you run zaruba container by using docker-desktop for mac/windows. Docker-desktop doesn't support host networking, so that you need to expose the ports manually (e.g: `docker run -d --name zaruba -p 8200-8300:8200-8300 -v "$(pwd):/project" stalchmst/zaruba:latest`)

## From source

Installing from source is the best way to setup zaruba for day-to-day use. Currently we don't have any plan to create `apt` or platform-specific packages for zaruba. If you are using windows, you need to install `wsl` in order to get started.

In order to install zaruba from source, you need to have some prerequisites software:

* `go 1.13` or newer (To install `go` quickly you can visit it's [official website](https://golang.org/doc/install))
* `wget` or `curl`
* `git`

> **💡HINT** Ubuntu user (including ubuntu-wsl) can simply invoke `sudo apt-get install golang wget curl git` to install all prerequisites.

After having the prerequisites installed you can then install zaruba by using `curl` or `wget`:

```sh
# Install zaruba by using curl
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/state-alchemists/zaruba/master/install.sh)"

# Install zaruba by using wget
sh -c "$(wget -O- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/state-alchemists/zaruba/master/install.sh)"
```

# 📜 Brief Introduction to Zaruba Script

You might already familiar with terraform's HCL, gitlab-ci, or github action. Don't worry if you are not. Those seemingly alien scripts are used to define tasks for automation. Most of those script (except for terraform's HCL) are written in YAML. YAML is like JSON, but it use indentation instead of curly-braces.

Zaruba's script are simply a YAML to define your tasks.

Although you don't need to worry about the script since zaruba can also generate the script for you, it is always better to know what's going on.

Zaruba tasks usually contains 3 keys: `includes`, `inputs` and `tasks`:

```yaml
includes:

- ${ZARUBA_HOME}/scripts/core.zaruba.yaml
- ./zaruba-tasks/runRabbitmq.zaruba.yaml

inputs:

  withApple:
    default: no    
    description: also show apple

tasks:

  run:
    icon: 🚅
    description: Run everything at once
    extend: core.runShellScript
    dependencies:
    - runFibo
    - runRabbitmq
    inputs:
    - withApple
    config:
      start: |
        {{ if eq (.GetValue "withApple") "true" }}
          echo "🍎"
        {{ end }}

  runFibo:
    icon: 📜
    description: Run fibo
    extend: serveHttp
    location: fibo
    env: &fiboEnv
      HTTP_PORT:
        from: FIBO_HTTP_PORT
        default: 8080
    lconfig:
      ports: &fiboPorts
      - '{{ .GetEnv "HTTP_PORT" }}'
    config: {}

```

## includes

This section is pretty straight forward. You can include as many other zaruba script as you need. Several useful scripts are available under `${ZARUBA_HOME}/scripts/core.zaruba.yaml`, so you might want to include it on every zaruba script you create.

## inputs

This section contains possible input for all zaruba tasks. Some tasks might share the same inputs. For example, creating docker container and removing docker container both require `docker.containerName`.

An input might has `default` value and `description`.

## tasks

This section contains task definition. A task might extend or depend on other tasks.

In our example, `runFibo` extend `serveHttp`. It means that `runFibo` is basically `serveHttp` with several configuration overridden.

On the other hand, `run` not only extend `core.runShellScript`, but also depends on `runFibo` and `runRabbitmq`. It means that whenever `run` is executed, `runFibo` and `runRabbitmq` will be executed first.

To execute tasks you can invoke:

```sh
zaruba please <task-names>
# or
zaruba please <task-names> --interactive
```


# 📁 Technical Documentation

For more comprehensive explanation, please read the [documentation](docs/Documentation.md).

# 🗺️ Roadmap

## Doing

* Secret input (i.e: user password, token, etc)

## To do

* Third party script (i.e: Load script from github repository)
* NLP (i.e: running tasks by using natural language)
* OSX Setup

# 🐞 Bug, Feature Request and Contribution

Open [issue](https://github.com/state-alchemists/zaruba/issues) or [pull request](https://github.com/state-alchemists/zaruba/pulls).


# 🎉 Fun Fact

> Madou Ring Zaruba (魔導輪ザルバ, Madōrin Zaruba?) is the Madou Ring for Golden Knight Garo's duties as a Makai Knight. He is a recurring character in the series, acting as a guide for the wearers of the Garo armor and being the narrator of the series in some episodes. [(Garo Wiki | Fandom)](https://garoseries.fandom.com/wiki/Zaruba)
